Welcome back everyone.
Now before we dive into the whole
prototype that we want to show you
taking all of our components and
putting it in the box,
getting it all set up to show you.
I wanted to kind of walk you through
another example something that myself and
a bunch of students built here at UCSD
not too long ago I think about maybe
about a year, a little over a year ago.
The system is very similar to the one
that we're going to be showing you
except a lot bigger.
Now we wanted the system to power for
a lot more things.
It's going to be a shipping container.
It's going to be providing
a stem education to kids.
Then we want to learn about DC power.
We want to learn about AC power.
We want to power fans,
possibly an air conditioner.
We want to make sure that there's
lighting for the whole area outside, so
the system had to be built a lot bigger.
Anyways, right here, we walked through
the whole process that we went through
earlier, the diagram, how many panels we
needed, how many batteries we needed,
what kind of charge controller,
inverter, everything.
And we kind of came up with
this design to meet that.
So you can see, kind of match the numbers
there, the inverter, you have it there,
a little gray box.
Our charge controller.
The battery packs,
which are on the bottom.
And then we wanted to do DC as well,
so we have a 12 volt regulator and
a 5 volt regulator.
Another view of that is
going to be right there.
Seeing as though it's a workstation,
kind of a semi mobile work station.
We wanted to provide a place to work on.
Right?
So you have a drywall,
it's kind of like a mock wall right?
Dry wall you have your little workbench,
computer station.
And then we wanted to have our AC
wall sockets on the bottom, and
our DC wall sockets on the top.
This is still a process that you all
at home should work through as well.
Deciding on how you want to
build your station.
Another little example from the bottom.
And then comes the ultimate goal,
which was to place it inside
of a shipping container.
With plenty of access for students or
whoever would like to use this system.
The panels would be either mounted on top,
kept inside the shipping container for
safe storage, and then pulled out
when they need to be used etc., etc.
The rest is up to your imagination right?
So we actually did this.
There's the shipping container.
It's an 8' x 8' x 20' shipping container.
And we'll go into a little
bit of the building process.
Now again you can skip
this video if you like.
I just wanted to kind of show
you something that we made.
Hopefully it can spark
some ideas into your head,
because maybe you don't want a rolling
mobile surveillance system capable of
powering the dragon board 410 C.
Maybe you want something bigger,
maybe you want something for your house.
Maybe you want something for
your shed outside,
something bigger, so this is a good idea.
All right, so here we go.
This is kind of us working on it.
I said measure twice cut once.
We first decided to
mount the solar panels.
We have these huge Kia-Sarah solar panels,
I think they were capable
of over 200 watts each.
The top of the line now pushes I think
300 watts on these big solar panels.
But again, go back 10 years ago,
20 years ago, these things were enormous,
huge, heavy.
We're very lucky to have
solar panels like this now.
So we mounted them.
We decided to go with four solar panels,
2 per structure.
Our system was designed to handle,
I think, 100 solar panels or
something like that.
So it's still capable for
plenty of expansion,
something to keep in mind also when
you're designing your capstone project,
maybe you want to get a big charge
controller, a big inverter,
a bunch of batteries but maybe you only
want to use two solar panels right now.
You have plenty of time to charge it and
you want plenty of time to use it as well.
So leaving that open for expansion, you
could carry this system around with you.
Use it for a long time, bring it home,
hook it up to a bunch of solar panels so
that it charges really fast,
and then go out again.
Right?
So again, a lot of variables.
We built our battery bank,
as you can see, we used four batteries.
Four 12 volt batteries which
makes it 48 volts in series.
We did put it in series.
And we wanted the battery bank
to be detachable, you know?
So that you could move the batteries by
themselves, and you could move the system
by itself and then put the batteries back,
or replace the batteries easily.
Also, for ventilation purposes.
So you can see it's starting
to come together here.
This was the mock wall.
You saw the 3D image.
This didn't take a lot of time.
If you have yourself and
a couple buddies, it'd be really cool
to see what you can come up with.
This is us kind of drilling
some cabling holes so
that everything can be maintained,
a little organized.
As you can see, Eric, I don't know if
you remember him from course 2 and 3.
There he is mounting up the router.
We have our charge controller up there,
the inverter.
And things are starting to come together.
Here is kind of the final product,
I guess you could say, from the back end.
So from left to right, they're both
the same pictures just zoomed in,
the left side you have your inverter.
Right in the middle is
the charge controller,
kind of the top right next to the charge
controller on the right that's a router,
below we have a breaker incase something
happens it cuts the current so
that nothing blows up, and
then we have the two DC parts.
The 5 volt regulator and
the 12 volt regulator.
All right.
So it's starting to come together and we
bring it out to our shipping container and
we setup our solar panels and
it's good to go, right?
So, that's just an example for you, right?
I wanted to show you something exciting,
something that any one of you
are capable of doing on your own.
And just to let you know this system
in particular is very capable
of doing almost anything that
you could probably need for
your house except obviously we
didn't completely geared it out.
But the charge controller, the inverter,
all of that very high end stuff
I think all in all,
this whole project costed us about $3,500.
But as you can tell, it'll probably save
a lot of money in the long run on energy
bills or anything that might be
paying in that, I'm saying there.
But yeah.
So, what kind of stuff are you capable of?
Are capable of doing at least on the
surveillance end with a system like this.
Or even a system that we're going to
be building in the next module.
What kind of stuff have you used, or
what kind of stuff would you want to learn
about or integrate into your system?
So here we have some lecture components,
sensors, some you have seen,
some may have not.
Now, how could we use this for
our surveillance system?
How could we them for our solar system?
Now you know the stepper motor
we've made programs for it.
We done it on Python using Linux.
An example what could we
use the stepper motor for?
Well stepper motor can be used
to rotate the solar panels.
Say you don't want your solar
panels attached to your box.
Say you want them detachable and
you want to carry your box around and
then come back and
charge it at a charging station.
Well you could program the solar panels to
rotate based on the timezone you're in or
whatever, to follow the sun.
Just an example.
You can think of anything else.
You could also get a light sensor and
have it follow the sun.
And I know that there are a lot of
really cool sensors coming out.
And we hope to integrate
these into a future course.
We'll see.
But I2C sensors that we will
hopefully be looking at at one point.
Stepper motor, you have the IR sensors.
You can break the IR sensors.
You could send signals from
the IR transmitter/receiver.
You have the RF identification
key fobs there.
I mean, get close with the RF signal.
Have the stepper motor trigger and
open your box.
The passive infrared sensor,
there's obviously infinite possibilities,
and these aren't even all the sensors.
There's so many more.
I mean,
there's hundreds of sensors out there.
So I just wanted to talk to
a little bit about that, we will be
talking more about the sensors that we
will be using for our project in part II.
But I would recommend you all
keep an open mind and before
moving on to part II, start thinking about
what you want to use for your project.
I know you will have your list.
After this, be sure, we'll have
the conclusion summary as always,
but be sure you look at our list.
Be sure you check to see if any of the
components are available in your area, and
then start thinking about how you want to
make this capstone project your own, and
how you want to integrate as many sensors
and as much functionality as possible.
So see you in the next video.